.. _migration-2-0-0:

=============
Version 2.0.0
=============

During the update for version 2.0.0, some manual changes are necessary.

Backup
------

Create a backup of the database and the ``media`` directory (default: ``/srv/helfertool/media``).
Including the ``media`` directory in the backup is important as these files will be changed during the update.

Update
------

Update the Helfertool (see :ref:`documentation <updates>`).

Migrate ``media`` files
-----------------------

The files in in the ``media`` directory are now split into two directories: ``private`` and ``public``.
Only the ``public`` directory is served directly without access control.

The migration is implemented as management command. If you use `helfertoolctl`, run:

.. code::

    helfertoolctl manage migrate_files

For manual deployments, run:

.. code::

    python manage.py migrate_files

In case you do not use the `helfertoolctl` or the Docker container, update your web server configuration.

* Old configuration: the complete ``media`` directory is served as ``/media``.
* New configuration: the ``media/public`` directory is served as ``/media/public``. The ``private`` directory is not accessible via the web server.

Newsletter
----------

The newsletter subscription is changed as described in the :ref:`changelog <changelog-2-0-0>`.
No manual changes are necessary, but the new subscription flow should be reviewed.

If the `Check installation` page shows issues for the templates, edit the `Newsletter subscription` template once (empty text is ok).

Mail validation is now required for all events. The configuration option to disable it was removed.

Verify web server configuration
-------------------------------

Helfertool uses the domain, which is used to access the page, to generate URLs for e-mails.
If your instance is reachable with different domain names, this may be confusing.

For example, if you subscribe on ``app.helfertool.org/subscribe``, the e-mail will contain a link to ``app.helfertool.org``.
If you access the same instance on ``www.app.helfertool.org`` instead, the link will be ``www.app.helfertool.org``.

It may be desirable that the same URL is used always. This can be achived with a redirect in the reverse proxy.
For nginx, the example config contains:

.. code::

    # redirect to "app.helfertool.org" if necessary (without www)
    if ($host != 'app.helfertool.org') {
            return 301 https://app.helfertool.org$request_uri;
    }
